- [Instructor] In this chapter we will learn
about Spring Data REST,
which is a service for creating
hypermedia driven RESTful APIs.
What is a hypermedia driven RESTful API?
According to Roy Fielding,
who first published the REST API specification,
an API is not truly RESTful unless it follows
a uniform interface.
One of his constraints for a uniform interface
is followed when hypermedia as an engine
of application state, or HATEOAS, is employed.
A RESTful API should do more than expose
resource endpoints over HTTP.
It should also expose the API's documentation
and automatically provide navigation between resources.
Hypermedia driven APIs accomplish just that.
The implementers of Spring Data REST agreed
and that's why Spring Data REST APIs are
hypermedia driven out of the box.
No extra configuration is needed.
In fact, you've already seen it in action.
Remember back in Chapter One
when we tested to see if a microservice
was running properly?
We invoked localhost:8080 and it generated the JSON packet.
This is an example of that out of the box support.
Localhost:8080/profile is an active link
to the documentation the API exposes by the microservice.
Spring Data REST employs
the hypermedia application language, or HAL, standard
to associate resource objects to one another.
Later in this chapter we will describe
how hypermedia is used to associate resources
to each other, but first let's start creating APIs
to expose the Explore California Tours and Tour Packages.